resolves #828 split install page (#829)
yuzutech/kroki: docs/modules/setup/pages/install.adoc

:uri-mermaid: https://mermaidjs.github.io/
:uri-bpmn: https://bpmn.io/toolkit/bpmn-js/
:uri-excalidraw: https://excalidraw.com/

This section covers installing Kroki locally.

On this page, you'll learn:

//* [x] Why install Kroki locally
* [x] How to get started
* [x] The different ways to install Kroki
* [x] About the Kroki pre-built image containers

//== Why install Kroki locally

== Get started

> Use Docker or Podman as the easiest and fastest method to get started running Kroki locally on a system with internet access using the pre-built Kroki containers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use Docker or Podman as the easiest and fastest method to get started running Kroki locally on a system with Internet access using the pre-built Kroki containers.
```

.Minimal installation
TIP: Regardless of your chosen containerized installation method, to get started and convert plain text diagrams to images with Kroki,

> you need only install the Kroki gateway server container "kroki"

Reviewer: I'm not quite sure about this tip. 

Maybe we should tell that the gateway server provides quite a few diagram libraries (PlantUML, GraphViz, Vega...) with an internal cross-reference to `#yuzutech-kroki`.
And the tip would be: you don't have to start all the companion containers, you can only start/use the gateway server (to put emphasis on the fact that companion containers are *optional*).

What do you think?

Author: Agreed.

Actually, looking with fresh eyes, the Get Started section should not rely on tips to get started. This might be better.

== Get started
To get started, use Docker or Podman to start the mandatory kroki container only.

Use either <<Docker or Podman>> as the easiest and fastest method to get started running Kroki locally on a system with Internet access using the pre-built Kroki containers published on Docker Hub.

Start the mandatory <<#yuzutech-kroki,`yuzutech/kroki`>> container only to use a large number of diagram libraries immediately including PlantUML, GraphViz and more.
Depending on your diagram needs, this may be enough.

For the lists of diagram libraries pre-installed in each container see the section <<kroki-container-images>> on this page.

NOTE: Only the <<yuzutech-kroki>> container is mandatory.
All the companion containers are _optional_.

== Docker or Podman
We recommend installing Kroki using containers with either Docker or Podman, especially if you don't want to manually install diagrams libraries.

Read more about choosing between Docker or Podman on the xref:about-docker-podman.adoc[] page.

Find how to install Kroki using Docker or Podman on the xref:use-docker-or-podman.adoc[] page.

== Kubernetes
Find how to make a Kubernetes installation on the xref:use-kubernetes.adoc[] page.

== Manual installation
You can also make a customized manual installation for a minimal footprint that suits your needs.

> To do this you manually install the Kroki gateway server as a _standalone executable jar_, install each diagram library that you want to use, then run the gateway server jar file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To do this, you will need to manually install the Kroki gateway server as a _standalone executable jar_, install each diagram library that you want to use, then run the gateway server jar file.
```

> You are responsible for managing any conflicts between installations of the diagram libraries.

Reviewer: I don't know if we should be too specific, maybe:

```suggestion
You are responsible for managing diagram library installations on your system.
```

Find how to make a manual installation on the xref:manual-install.adoc[Manual installation] page.

[#images]
== [[kroki-container-images]]Kroki container images
These pre-built Kroki container images are found on Docker Hub and Kroki containers are created from these.

> They are the Kroki gateway server image.

Reviewer: I don't understand the sentence "They are" ?

* <<yuzutech-kroki,Kroki gateway>> - This is the only container that must be running for a minimal install.

> The optional companion containers serve additional diagrams and require the gateway server above running to be used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The _optional_ companion containers provide additional diagrams. Please note that you need the gateway server to interact with them.
```

* <<yuzutech-kroki-blockdiag,Kroki blockdiag>>
* <<yuzutech-kroki-bpmn,Kroki bpmn>>
* <<yuzutech-kroki-excalidraw,Kroki excalidraw>>
* <<yuzutech-kroki-mermaid,Kroki mermaid>>

=== Gateway server container "kroki"
[#yuzutech-kroki]

> The {uri-docker-kroki-image}[yuzutech/kroki] image on Docker Hub contains the gateway server and the following diagram libraries out-of-the-box:

Reviewer: I'm not sure if we need to state again that the image is hosted on Docker Hub.

```suggestion
The {uri-docker-kroki-image}[yuzutech/kroki] image contains the gateway server and the following diagram libraries out-of-the-box:
```

If you want to use additional diagrams (such as _BlockDiag_, _Mermaid_, _Excalidraw_ or _BPMN_), then you will also need to start companion containers:

=== Companion containers

> These optional containers from Docker Hub serve additional diagrams and require the gateway server running to be used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These optional companion containers provide additional diagrams.
```

[#yuzutech-kroki-mermaid]
{uri-docker-kroki-mermaid-image}[yuzutech/kroki-mermaid^]::
Provides flowchart, sequence and Gantt diagrams for Kroki using the {uri-mermaid}[Mermaid^] library.

[#yuzutech-kroki-bpmn]
{uri-docker-kroki-bpmn-image}[yuzutech/kroki-bpmn^]::
Provides BPMN diagrams for Kroki using the {uri-bpmn}[bpmn-js^] library.

[#yuzutech-kroki-excalidraw]
{uri-docker-kroki-excalidraw-image}[yuzutech/kroki-excalidraw^]::

> Provides BPMN diagrams for Kroki using the {uri-excalidraw}[Excalidraw^] library.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Provides hand-drawn diagrams for Kroki using the {uri-excalidraw}[Excalidraw^] library.
```
